Advantages and Disadvantages of Naive Bayes


Extremely fast related to other classification algorithms
Works on bayes theory of probablity

Pros:

It is easy and fast to predict class of test data set. It also perform well in multi class prediction
When assumption of independence holds, a Naive Bayes classifier performs better compare to other models like logistic regression and you need less training data.
It perform well in case of categorical input variables compared to numerical variable(s). For numerical variable, normal distribution is assumed (bell curve, which is a strong assumption).

Cons:

If categorical variable has a category (in test data set), which was not observed in training data set, then model will assign a 0 (zero) probability and will be unable to make a prediction. This is often known as “Zero Frequency”. To solve this, we can use the smoothing technique. One of the simplest smoothing techniques is called Laplace estimation.
On the other side naive Bayes is also known as a bad estimator, so the probability outputs from predict_proba are not to be taken too seriously.
Another limitation of Naive Bayes is the assumption of independent predictors. In real life, it is almost impossible that we get a set of predictors which are completely independent.

Building a model with naive bayes

Gaussian - It is used in classification and it assumes that features follow a normal distribution.

Multinomial -  It is used for discrete counts. For example, let’s say,  we have a text classification problem. Here we can consider bernoulli trials which is one step further and instead of “word occurring in the document”, we have “count how often word occurs in the document”, you can think of it as “number of times outcome number x_i is observed over the n trials”.

Bernoli - The binomial model is useful if your feature vectors are binary (i.e. zeros and ones). One application would be text classification with ‘bag of words’ model where the 1s & 0s are “word occurs in the document” and “word does not occur in the document” respectively.

posterior probability=(conditional probability⋅prior probability)/evidence

posterior probablity means what is the probablity that the particular object belong to class i given its observed feature values

prior probablity means what is the probablity of occuring of class i from all the instaces. example tossing a coin

evidanves means probablity of occuring of particular pattern from a class label


References  -- http://sebastianraschka.com/Articles/2014_naive_bayes_1.html#3_3_multivariate


